Page 1 of 10 
 
 
 
भारत सरकार/Government of India 
अंतįरƗ िवभाग/Department of Space    
भारतीय अंतįरƗ अनुसंधान संगठन/Indian Space Research Organisation 
इसरो नोदन कॉ̱ɘेƛ/ISRO PROPULSION COMPLEX 
महŐūिगįर/Mahendragiri - 627 133 
 
Advertisement No.IPRC/RMT/2026/01 dated 12.09.2026  
 
ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC) located at Mahendragiri, Tirunelveli District, Tamil Nadu is a lead Unit 
of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) in the area of Liquid Propulsion for ISRO’s Launch Vehicle and 
Spacecraft Programme. IPRC is responsible for Research & Development of Propulsion Systems; Assembly, 
Integration & Testing of Engines, Stages, Associated Control Systems, Sub-systems & Components of Launch 
Vehicles; High Altitude Testing of Upper Stage Engines and Spacecraft Thrusters; Production and Supply of 
Propellants for ISRO’s Launch Vehicles and Satellite Programme; etc. IPRC also carries out Research & 
Development (R&D) and Technology Development Programme (TDP) towards continual improvement of its 
contribution to the ISRO Space Programme. 
 
ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC) invites online applications for the following posts from eligible candidates: 
 
THE RESPONSIBILITY TO ENSURE THE FULFILLMENT OF ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AND 
REQUIREMENTS DETAILED IN THIS ADVERTISEMENT RESTS SOLELY WITH THE APPLICANT. 
APPLICANTS ARE THEREFORE ADVISED TO CAREFULLY READ THE FULL ADVERTISEMENT 
BEFORE PROCEEDING FOR ONLINE APPLICATION.  
 
1.   VACANCY DETAILS 
 
 
Post 
Code 
Name of the Post 
& Discipline 
No. of vacancies & 
Reservation Details Essential Qualifications 
60 
Technical Assistant 
(Automobile 
Engineering) 
01 
(OBC-01)  First Class Diploma in Automobile Engineering. 
61 Technical Assistant 
(Mechanical) 
03 
(UR-01) 
(OBC-01) 
(ST-01) 
 First Class Diploma in Mechanical Engineering OR  
Production Engineering 
62 
Technical Assistant 
(Electronics & 
Communication) 
01 
(UR-01) 
 First Class Diploma in Electronics Engineering OR  
Electronics & Communication Engineering OR Electronics 
& Telecommunication Engineering OR Electron ics & 
Instrumentation Engineering 
63 Technician ‘B’ 
(Turner)  
02 
(UR-01) 
(SC-01) 
 Pass in SSLC/SSC/Matric/10th Std. AND 
 ITI in Turner Trade with NTC from NCVT OR  
NAC from NCVT. 
64 Technician ‘B’  
(Fitter) 
04 
(OBC-03) 
(EWS-01) 
Out of the above 1 post is 
reserved for Ex-SM 
category. 
 Pass in SSLC/SSC/Matric/10th Std. AND 
 ITI in Fitter Trade with NTC from NCVT OR  
NAC from NCVT. 
65 Technician ‘B’  
(Welder) 
02 
(UR-01) 
(SC-01) 
 Pass in SSLC/SSC/Matric/10th Std. AND 
 ITI in Welder Trade with NTC from NCVT OR  
NAC from NCVT. 
66 Technician ‘B’  
(Machinist) 
03 
(UR-02) 
(SC-01) 
Out of the above 1 post is 
reserved for PwBD (Ortho). 
 Pass in SSLC/SSC/Matric/10th Std. AND 
 ITI in Machinist Trade with NTC from NCVT OR  
NAC from NCVT. 
67 
Technician ‘B’  
(Refrigeration &  
Air Conditioning) 
01 
(UR-01) 
 Pass in SSLC/SSC/Matric/10th Std. AND 
 ITI in Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Trade with NTC 
from NCVT OR NAC from NCVT. 
68 Technician ‘B’  
(Electrician) 
01 
(EWS-01) 
 Pass in SSLC/SSC/Matric/10th Std. AND 
 ITI in Electrician Trade with NTC from NCVT OR  
NAC from NCVT. 

Page 2 of 10 
70 Cook ‘A’ 01 
(UR-01) 
 Pass in SSLC/SSC/Matric/10 th Std. AND 
 5 years experience as Cook in a well Established Hotel / 
Canteen. Experience Certificate issued by a well 
Established Hotel / Canteen should be submitted during 
Skill Test. Experience Certificate from indi viduals will not 
be accepted. 
71 Fireman ‘A’ 
03 
(UR-02) 
(OBC-01) 
Out of the above 1 post is 
reserved for  
Ex-SM category. 
 Pass in SSLC/SSC/Matric/10th Std. AND 
 Should satisfy the prescribed Physical Fitness Standards  
AND 
  Should upload Preliminary Medical Examination 
Certificate (Annexure A) along with online application 
 Total 22  
Note: 
1. Functional requirements in respect of PwBD candidates for the post code 60 is S, STA, BN, RW, SE, H   
61 to 62 is S, MF, RW, SE, H, C, CL, W, BN, L and  post code 63 is S, STA, BN, MF, SE, H, C and post 
code 64 & 66 are S, STA, W, BN, H, C, PP, L and post code 65 is S, STA, BN, MF, SE, H, C, RW and 
post code 67 is S, STA, W, C and post code 68 is S, STA, H, C and post code 70 is S, STA, W, BN, L, 
PP, MF 
 
Abbreviations Used 
 
UR :  Unreserved  OBC : Other Backward Classes  SC :  Scheduled Caste 
ST :  Scheduled Tribe  EWS : Economically Weaker Section  Ex-SM :  Ex-Serviceman 
S :  Sitting  MF :  Manipulation by Fingers  RW :  Reading & Writing 
SE :  Seeing  H :  Hearing  C :  Communication 
CL :  Climbing  W :  Walking  BN :  Bending 
L :  Lifting  STA :  Standing  PP :  Pulling & Pushing 
 
2. PAY & LEVEL IN THE PAY MATRIX 
 
 
The pay entitlements for each post are as follows:  
 
Post Code – 60 to 62 
Technical Assistant 
Level – 07 
(Rs.44,900/- – Rs.1,42,400/-) 
In addition, other allowances                  
viz. Dearness Allowance, House Rent 
Allowance [HRA] and Transport 
Allowance at the prescribed rates in force 
at the place of posting will be paid for 
those who are not availing Departmental 
Housing and Transport facility, 
respectively. The employees will be 
governed by the National Pension System 
(NPS). Further Medical Facilities 
(Contributory Health Service Scheme) for 
self and dependents, Subsidized 
Canteen, Transport facility in lieu of 
Transport Allowance, limited 
Departmental Housing facility in lieu of 
HRA, Leave Travel Concession, House 
Building Advance for construction of 
house are also provided as per extant 
Government orders. 
Post Code- 63 to 68 
Technician ‘B’  
Level- 03 
21,700/- Rs.69,100/-) 
Post Code- 70 
Cook ‘A’ 
Level- 02 
(Rs.19,900/- Rs.63,200/-) 
Post Code- 71 
Firemen ‘A’ 
 
3. AGE LIMIT (AS ON 05.10.2026) 
 
Post Code – 60 to 68 & 70 18 to 35 years as on 05.10.2026. 
Post Code - 71 18 to 25 years as on 05.10.2026. 
 
Age relaxation is applicable for applicants belonging to SC / ST category (5 years) and OBC category (3 years) 
if post(s) is/are reserved for the categories . Serving Government Employees; Ex-Servicemen; Persons with 
Benchmark Disabilities; Widows; Divorced women and women judicially separated from their husbands and who 
are not remarried; Meritorious Sportspersons are eligible for upper age relaxation as per Government of India 
orders. 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 10 
4. MODE OF SELECTION 
 
Post Code(s) Name of the Post Mode of Selection 
60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 
68 & 70 
Technical Assistant 
Written Test + Skill Test (Curriculum based) Technician ‘B’ 
Cook ‘A’ 
71 Fireman ‘A’ Written Test + Skill Test (Physical Efficiency 
Test) + Detailed Medical Examination 
 
Note:   1. The final selection will be based on the scores obtained in the Written Test. 
2. The Written Test will be held on offline mode (OMR method) in Tirunelveli & Chennai. The 
applicants have to make their choice of city for written test while submission of online application. It 
may be noted that the choice once made cannot be changed later under any circumstances.  
3. The Skill test will be conducted purely on ‘GO/NO-GO’ basis and the final selection will be done 
amongst qualified candidates, purely based on the scores obtained in the written test. 
4. In case of a tie in Written Test scores, the academic scores of the notified qualification shall be the 
tie breaker. 
5. The above mode of selection may change as per Govt. of India/DOS/ISRO orders from time to 
time. 
6.     The written test and Skill Test question paper for the post codes 60 to 62 will be in bilingual (English, 
Hindi) and post codes 63 to 68 & 70 to 71 will be in Trilingual (Tamil, Hindi, English).   
 
5. SYLLABUS FOR WRITTEN TEST AND SKILL TEST 
 
Technical Assistant 
(Post Codes 60 to 62) 
AND 
Technician ‘B’ 
(Post codes 63 to 68) 
 
WRITTEN TEST 
 
 
1.  It  is purely based on the Curriculum (Academic Syllabus) of the prescribed 
Educational Qualification. 
2. The Written Test will comprise of 80 Multiple Choice Questions with duration 
of 90 minutes (1½ hours). 
3. For each correct answer, 1 mark will be awarded and for each wrong answer, 
0.33 marks will be deducted. 
4. Applicants belonging to UR category have to secure minimum 32 marks out of 
80 marks for passing the Written Test. 
5. Passing marks for applicants belonging to reserved categories will be 24 
marks out of 80 marks, wherever a post is reserved for the respective 
category. 
 
 
SKILL TEST 
 
1. It is purely based on the Curriculum (Academic Syllabus) of the prescribed 
Educational Qualification.  
2. The Skill Test will be purely on ‘GO-NO-GO’ basis and marks obtained in the 
skill test shall not be considered for selection. The Skill Test will be conducted 
for 100 marks out of which the applicants have to secure minimum 50 marks 
for qualifying. 
3. Passing marks for applicants belonging to reserved categories will be           
40 marks out of 100 marks, wherever a post is reserved for the respective 
category. 
4. The applicants who had qualified in the Written Test will be shortlisted for the 
Skill Test in 1:5 ratio with a minimum of 10 applicants for a post.   
 
In case of a tie in written test scores, the academic scores of the notified 
qualification shall be the tie breaker. 
 
Page 4 of 10 
Cook ‘A’ post  
[Post Code : 70] 
WRITTEN TEST 
 
The Syllabus is: 
Knowledge in cooking & equipments used in kitchen, General Knowledge, 
General English & Arithmetic (SSLC/Matriculation level). 
 
The Written Test will comprise of 100 Multiple Choice Questions with a duration of 
120 minutes (2 hours). 
1. For each correct answer, 1 mark will be awarded and for each wrong answer, 
0.25 marks will be deducted. 
 
SKILL TEST 
 
1. The Skill Test will be purely of qualifying nature. The Skill Test will be 
conducted for 100 marks out of which the applicants have to secure minimum 
60 marks for qualifying. 
Fireman ‘A’ post  
[Post Code: 71] 
WRITTEN TEST 
 
The Syllabus is: 
 
 
i. Basic chemistry with reference to flammable liquids and gases 
ii. LPG properties 
iii. Relation between Pressure, Volume and Temperature 
iv. Area of triangle, rectangle and parallelogram 
v. Volume of cylinder, cone, sphere and cuboid 
vi. Properties of Water, CO 2, O2, H2, Inert gases 
vii. Basic concept in the use of electricity and its hazards 
viii.   Simple Arithmetic (of Class X standard) 
ix. Basic English 
x. General Knowledge and Current Affairs 
The Written Test will comprise of 100 Multiple Choice Questions with a duration of 
120 minutes (2 hours). 
1. For each correct answer, 1 mark will be awarded and for each wrong answer, 
0.25 marks will be deducted. 
 
 The candidates belonging to EWS category are entitled for selection, similar to the standards of selection 
adopted for unreserved candidates. 
 
6.     Physical Fitness Standards and Physical Efficiency Test for Fireman ‘A’ post [Post Code: 71] 
 
6.1. Physical Fitness Standards for Fireman ‘A’ post [Post Code: 71] 
 
Parameter 
Men Women & 
Transgender General Category Gorkhas, Hill Tribes, SC & 
ST 
Height (minimum) 165 cm 160 cm 155 cm 
Weight (minimum) 50 kg 46 kg 43 kg 
Body Mass Index 18-28 
Waist to Hip Ratio ≤ 1 
Chest on Expiration (minimum) 81 cm 76 cm Not Applicable 
Chest on Inspiration (minimum) 86 cm 81 cm Not Applicable 
Chest Expansion (minimum) 5 cm 
Distant Vision 6/6 without glasses or any other aid in each eye 
Near Vision** Normal (Presbyopia correction is allowed for applicants above 40 years 
of age) 
Field of Vision Full 
Hearing Normal (By Tuning fork Tests) 
Psychiatry No known psychiatric illness 
Heart Sounds Normal 
ECG Normal 
Respiratory Systems Normal 
Neurological System Normal 
Musculo-Skeletal System No clinical evidence of disease 
** Presbyopia correction is allowed in case of candidates above 40 years of age. 
 
Page 5 of 10 
The applicants for the post of Fireman ‘A’ post [Post Code: 71] should mandatorily submit Preliminary 
Medical Examination (PME) Certificate (as prescribed in Annexure A) during the Skill Test. Scanned copy of 
the PME Certificate should also be uploaded in the online application.   
i. The PME Certificate should be issued by a Government Medical Officer (Allopathy) not below 
the rank of Assistant Civil Surgeon employed in Government Health Services.  
ii. The PME Certificate will be valid for a period of 06 months. 
iii. Those applicants who had uploaded the PME Certificate and meeting the prescribed Physical 
Fitness Standards only will be called for the Skill Test. 
 
6.2.  Presence of any one of the following will be disqualification 
a. Knock knee, bow legs, flat foot, any physical deformity of Spine or any limb, congenital or 
acquired 
b. Night blindness 
c. Colour blindness 
d. Squint or any other morbid condition of the eyes, or of the eyelids of either eye liable to the risk of 
aggravation or recurrence. 
e. Monocular vision 
f. Glaucoma 
g. Implanted pacemaker 
h. Blood Pressure more than 140/90 mmHg with evidence of damage to target organs 
i. Anaemia (Haemoglobin<10 gm %) 
j. Random Blood Sugar >180 mg/dl 
k. Organomegaly by Clinical examination 
l. Hernia 
m. Hydrocele 
n. Haemorrhoids 
o. Any chronic illness likely to worsen over a period of time 
p. Varicose veins 
q. Ischemic Heart Disease (IHD) and any other heart diseases 
r. Seizure Disorders (EEG if required) 
s. Bilateral Nystagmus and Positive Romberg Sign 
t. Serious Infectious diseases that are likely to be communicable to others: Lepromatous Leprosy, 
Active Tuberculosis with sputum positive for Tubercle Bacilli 
u. Malignancy: Any Carcinoma, Multiple Myeloma and Blood dyscrasias. 
v. Any other major operation by virtue of which his/her physical fitness to work in fire service has 
been impaired 
w. Thyrotoxicosis and pituitary disorders 
x. Diabetes with micro vascular / macro vascular complications 
y. Bronchial Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) 
6.3   The Skill Test (Physical Efficiency Test) for Fireman ‘A’ post [Post Code: 71] 
1. The applicants who had qualified in the Written Test and meeting the prescribed Preliminary Medical 
Examination (PME) norms will be shortlisted for the Skill Test in 1:50 ratio. 
2. The Skill Test will be purely of qualifying nature. 
3. The shortlisted applicants shall participate in the Physical Efficiency Test (PET) at his/her own risk and 
volition. No compensation, whatsoever, is payable for any injury, disability (temporary/permanent), 
death, etc., attributable wholly/partially/directly/indirectly, to the applicant’s participation in the PET. A 
suitable declaration to this effect should be submitted by the applicants shortlisted for the Skill Test 
while attending the Skill Test. 
4. The Physical Efficiency Test will be conducted in two stages. Those applicants who qualify in Stage 1 
PET shall be allowed to undergo Stage 2 PET. 
5. Those applicants who qualify in Stage 2 PET shall be allowed to undergo Detailed Medical Examination. 
6. Qualifying in all the events in PET is mandatory and if any applicant gets disqualified in any of the event, 
he/she will not be allowed to proceed for further events. 
Page 6 of 10 
7. Those applicants who qualify in Detailed Medical Examination subsequent to PET shall be considered 
for empanelment in the order of Written Test marks. 
8. List of events and Qualifying Criteria for Physical Efficiency Test 
Sl. 
No. Events 
Qualification Criteria for applicants of age 
Age upto 40 years  Age above 40 years 
Male Female & 
Transgender Male Female & 
Transgender 
STAGE 1 
1. 
1500 meters Run* 7 minutes --- 8 minutes --- 
800 meters Run* --- 4 minutes --- 5 minutes 
STAGE 2 
1. Rope climbing (using only hands)  5 meters from  
ground level 
4.5 meters from 
ground level 
4.5 meters from 
ground level 
4 meters from  
ground level 
2. 
Carrying a human dummy by Fireman’s lift 
(60 kg weight for men/50 kg weight for 
women & Transgender) 
25 meters in 
60 seconds 
25 meters in 
75 seconds 
25 meters in 
75 seconds 
25 meters in 
90 seconds 
3. Long Jump  3.8 meters 3.5 meters 3.5 meters 3.2 meters 
4. 100 meters Run*  15 seconds 17 seconds 17 seconds 19 seconds 
 
 * Shoes with spikes are not allowed 
09. 3 attempts will be allowed in Long Jump event alone and only 1 attempt will be provided in all other 
events. “BEST OF 3 ATTEMPTS” will be considered for qualifying in the Long Jump event. The 
applicants who attain the qualifying standard in an attempt may not be required to perform the balance 
attempts. 
10. Selected candidates for the post of Fireman – A should mandatorily stay in Essential Staff Quarters, 
IPRC. 
7.    GENERAL GUIDELINES 
1.. Applicants who are employed under Central/State Government, Public Sector Undertakings, 
Autonomous Bodies, Private Organisations under direct control of Central/State Government etc. have 
to submit “ No Objection Certificate ” from the employer concerned, at the time of Skill Test or as and 
when called for. An applicant who may gain/change employment after applying for the post, is required 
to inform the employer the particulars of his/her application and shall mandatorily submit NOC at the 
time of Skill Test. Any applicant, who fails to submit NOC in original at the time of Skill Test, shall 
not be permitted to appear in the Skill Test and Travelling Allowance will not be paid.  
 However, such applicants should apply for the post only under intimation to and with the prior 
permission of the employer.  
2. The applicants are advised to furnish their  e-Mail ID CORRECTLY and COMPULSORILY upon 
ONLINE registration since all further communications will be sent through e-Mail only. 
3.   Please note that the qualifications prescribed are the minimum requirement and the same does not 
automatically make the applicants eligible for the selection. 
4. Please note that the various conditions mentioned herewith in this notification such as eligibility criteria, 
selection method, reservation, relaxation etc. are subject to revision in accordance with Government of 
India/DOS/ISRO orders issued from time to time. 
 
8. HOW TO APPLY 
i. Applications will be received ONLINE ONLY. 
ii. Applicants may visit Careers page of IPRC Website (www.iprc.gov.in) from 15.09.2026, 10:00 Hrs until 
05.10.2026, 16:00 Hrs for submitting online application. 
iii. The applicants registered under National Career Services (NCS) portal and fulfilling the eligibility 
conditions may visit Careers page of IPRC website and follow the application procedure. 
iv. Other forms of applications viz. Physical Applications/e-Mails/Submission of Biodata/Resume/CV etc. will 
not be entertained. 
Page 7 of 10 
v. All further communications to eligible applicants regarding Written Test/Skill Test will be sent 
through e-Mail only . Therefore, the applicants are advised to furnish their  e-Mail ID CORRECTLY and 
COMPULSORILY upon ONLINE registration.  
vi. Uploading of Recent Photograph and Signature of the applicant 
 Photograph should be taken in a formal dressing with light shaded background.  
 The full face and eyes of the applicants should be clear in the photograph.  
 Applicants should not be wearing head gears (caps or hats) or eye shades (sunglasses) or similar 
accessories in the uploaded photograph. 
 Those who normally wear spectacles should ensure that their eyes are clearly visible in the 
photograph without any reflections. 
 The file format of the photograph should be .jpeg only with maximum file size of 1MB.  
 Signature shall be made with blue ink pen in white paper.  
 The file format of the Signature should be .jpeg only with maximum file size of 1MB.  Aspect ratio 
should be 7:2 (if width is 70 pixel then height should be 20 pixel)  
 The filename of the above images should not contain any blank spaces or special characters or 
numbers. 
 Applications with inappropriate/obscene images or casual photographs or self taken images 
(selfie) will be rejected. 
 Applications in which applicants’ photograph/signature is not clear will be rejected. 
 Applicant should ensure that only virus free image is uploaded. In case, any malware is 
detected in the uploaded photo, the application will be rejected. 
 
vii. Uploading of Certificates/Testimonials 
 Applicant should upload scanned copies of following certificates/testimonials. 
Sl 
No 
Name of the 
Post & Post 
Code 
Certificates to be uploaded 
01 
Technical 
Assistant, 
post codes 60 to 
62. 
 
1. Certificate and Mark sheet in respect of SSLC/SSC/Matriculation/X Standard 
2. Certificate and Mark sheets in respect of HSC/XII Standard (if applicable) 
3. Certificate and Mark sheets in respect of Diploma Qualification 
4. Aadhaar Card (PAN Card or Voters ID or Driving License in the absence of 
Aadhaar) 
5. Caste/Community/Income & Asset Certificate for applicants belonging to 
SC/ST/OBC/EWS category (if applicable) 
6. Disability Certificate for applicants belonging to PwBD category (if applicable) 
7. Discharge Certificate for applicants belonging to Ex-Serviceman category         
(if applicable) 
8. Bank Passbook front page (for refund purpose) 
02 
Technician ‘B’ 
Post Codes 63 to 
68  
 
1. Certificate and Mark sheet in respect of SSLC/SSC/Matriculation/X Standard. 
2. Certificate and Mark sheets in respect of HSC/XII Standard (if applicable) 
3. Certificate and Mark sheets in respect of ITI Qualification 
4. Aadhaar Card (PAN Card or Voters ID or Driving License in the absence of 
Aadhaar) 
5. Caste/Community/Income & Asset Certificate for applicants belonging to 
SC/ST/OBC/EWS category (if applicable) 
6. Disability Certificate for applicants belonging to PwBD category (if applicable) 
7. Discharge Certificate for applicants belonging to Ex-Serviceman category (if 
applicable) 
8. Bank Passbook front page (for refund purpose) 
03 
Cook ‘A’ 
post code 70 
 
1. Certificate and Mark sheet in respect of SSLC/SSC/Matriculation/X Standard 
2. Certificate and Mark sheets in respect of HSC/XII Standard (if applicable) 
3. Aadhaar Card (PAN Card or Voters ID or Driving License in the absence of 
Aadhaar) 
4. Caste/Community/Income & Asset Certificate for applicants belonging to 
SC/ST/OBC/EWS category (if applicable) 
5. Disability Certificate for applicants belonging to PwBD category (if applicable) 
6. Discharge Certificate for applicants belonging to Ex-Serviceman category (if 
applicable) 
7. Certificates supporting Previous Experience 
8. Bank Passbook front page (for refund purpose) 
Page 8 of 10 
04 
Fireman ‘A’  
post code 71 
 
1. Certificate and Mark sheet in respect of SSLC/SSC/Matriculation/X Standard 
2. Certificate and Mark sheets in respect of HSC/XII Standard (if applicable) 
3. Aadhaar Card (PAN Card or Voters ID or Driving License in the absence of 
Aadhaar) 
4. Caste/Community/Income & Asset Certificate for applicants belonging to EWS 
category (if applicable) 
5. Discharge Certificate for applicants belonging to Ex-Serviceman category (if 
applicable) 
6. Preliminary Medical Examination (PME) Certificate 
7. Bank Passbook front page (for refund purpose) 
 
 
 The format of the file shall be pdf/jpeg with maximum file size of 1 MB.  
 The scanning should be done in such as way that the contents should be clear.  
 The filename of the above pdf/jpeg files should not contain any blank spaces or special 
characters or numbers. 
 Applications with file containing inappropriate/obscene contents will be rejected. 
 Applications in which the contents are not clear will be rejected. 
 Applicant should ensure that only virus free file is uploaded. In case, any malware is detected 
in the uploaded file, the application will be rejected. 
viii. IT MAY BE CLEARLY NOTED THAT ONLINE APPLICATION ONCE SUBMITTED CANNOT BE   
EDITED LATER. HENCE, APPLICANTS ARE ADVISED TO VERIFY WHETHER, ALL THE DETAILS 
ENTERED IN THE APPLICATION ARE CORRECT, BEFORE FINAL SUBMISSION OF THE 
APPLICATION. 
ix. On submission of Online Application, an APPLICATION FORM  will be generated containing all the 
details entered in the online application. The applicant may download and preserve the same for future 
references. The APPLICATION FORM can be downloaded later also through the link provided in the 
advertisement page. 
x. The applicant NEED NOT send printout of the APPLICATION FORM or any other documents to IPRC. 
 
9. CHOICE OF CITY FOR WRITTEN TEST 
 
i.  The written test will be held at Tirunelveli and Chennai. The applicants have to make their choice of city 
for written test while submission of online application. It may be noted that the choice once made 
cannot be changed later under any circumstance.  
 
ii.  IPRC reserves the right to change/cancel any of the written test centres and reallocate the 
applicants to another written test centre owing to unforeseen/ administrative reasons. 
 
10. APPLICATION FEE   
i. For post code 60 to 62  
Applicants have to uniformly pay the Application Fee of Rs.750/- (Rupees Seven Hundred and 
Fifty Only). 
ii. For post code 63 to 68 & 70 to 71 
Applicants have to uniformly pay the Application Fee of Rs. 500/- (Rupees Five Hundred Only). 
iii. The application fee is being collected only through Online mode  vide SBI e-Payment gateway and the 
link for making the payment will appear on submission of the online application. The fee can be paid 
using any one of the following modes: 
 Internet Banking 
 Debit Cards (Domestic) 
 Credit Cards (Domestic) 
 Unified Payment Interface 
 
iv. Payment of Application Fee in any other form like cash remittance, cheque, draft, money order, 
IPO, etc. are not allowed. 
v. Application fee can be paid immediately after submitting online application by clicking the “PAY” button 
or later on any day before the last date for submission of online application, i.e. 05.10.2026 using the link 
provided in the advertisement page. [Applicants making online payment may kindly note that IPRC shall 
not be responsible for pending transactions or transaction failures. Applicants may contact their Banks 
and ensure successful payment of application fee. Ensuring a ‘successful payment’ from “ Receipt” link in 
ISRO’s website is mandatory for the applicants]. 
vi. Do not click REFRESH or BACK button during entire payment process else the session will be aborted. 
Page 9 of 10 
vii. Please follow the instructions of the payment gateway for making successful payment. 
viii. Applicants can Print Receipt by visiting “Receipt” link available in advertisement page. In case of pending 
transactions or transaction failures applicants are advised to contact their Banks and ensure successful 
payment of application fee.  
 
11.   REFUND OF APPLICATION FEE 
i.  Refund will be granted only to such applicants who appear in the written test. 
ii.   For post code 60 to 62  
Initially, applicants have to pay Rs.750/- per application. Female / Scheduled Castes (SC) / 
Scheduled Tribes (ST) / Ex-servicemen [Ex-SM] and Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) 
candidates will be refunded full fee and for other candidates, an amount of Rs.500/- will be refunded in 
due course duly deducting bank charges as applicable subject to the condition that the candidates 
should appear in the written test. 
iii. For post code 63 to 68 & 70 to 71  
Initially, applicants have to pay Rs. 500/- per application. Female / Scheduled Castes (SC) / 
Scheduled Tribes (ST) / Ex-servicemen [Ex-SM] and Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) 
candidates will be refunded full fee and for other candidates, an amount of Rs.400/- will be refunded in 
due course duly deducting bank charges as applicable subject to the condition that the candidates 
should appear in the written test. 
iv.  Refund of application fee will not be done in any other scenarios and no such requests will be 
entertained. 
v.  Bank transaction / User charges, if any, during the payment of application fee shall be borne by 
the candidates. 
vi.  The applicants shall correctly furnish Bank details for the purpose of Refund of application fee viz.  
Name of Account Holder, Account No., Name of Bank, Name of Branch and IFSC Code. Scanned 
copy of the front page of the bank passbook for the furnished account should also be uploaded in the 
JPEG/PDF file uploaded by the applicant containing certificates/ testimonials prescribed at Point No.8 
(vii) above. 
vii.  IPRC will not be held responsible for any issues arising in refund of the application fee as a result of 
incorrect entry of bank details by the applicant in the online application. 
 
12. DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED DURING SKILL TEST 
i.  The applicants NEED NOT SEND/SUBMIT ANY DOCUMENTS/CERTIFICATES/ APPLICATION 
FORM PRINTOUT to IPRC directly/through post after submission of Online Application. 
ii.  However, the applicants shall be liable to produce the originals of all documents uploaded in the online 
application portal listed in Point No.8 (vii) above during the Skill Test or whenever required by IPRC. 
iii.  Applicants who are currently employed under Central Government/State Government/Public Sector 
Undertaking/Quasi-Government/Autonomous Bodies should mandatorily produce ‘No Objection 
Certificate’ from the present employer during Skill Test. 
iv.  Those who fail to produce the above documentary evidences during Skill Test will not be allowed 
to attend the Skill Test and Travelling Allowance will not be paid.  
 
13. GENERAL CONDITIONS 
 
 
1. Only Indian Nationals are eligible to apply. 
2. The posts are of temporary nature, but likely to continue indefinitely. 
3. Those who possess the prescribed qualifications/experience as on the closing date of Online 
application, i.e. 05.10.2026 only shall apply.  
4. Further selection process will be carried out on the basis of the information entered by the applicants 
in the Online Application. Hence, any mismatch found in future at any stage of the recruitment 
process will summarily reject the candidature of the applicant. 
5. The essential qualifications for the above posts should have been acquired from a recognized State 
Board/University. 
6. Those who possess the exact qualifications prescribed above shall apply and no equivalent courses 
will be considered eligible. 
Page 10 of 10 
7. Applications without proper email ID will be treated as invalid. 
8. Candidates belonging to EWS (Economically Weaker Sections) are required to produce the 
certificate issued by the Competent Authority in the prescribed format as per Ministry of Personnel, 
Public Grievances & Pension, Department of Personnel & Training vide Office Memorandum No. 
36039/1/2019-Estt.(Res) dated 31/01/2019. 
9. Rounding off of marks is not permitted during selection process. 
10. Initially the place of posting will be in IPRC, Mahendragiri, Tirunelveli District, Tamil Nadu. However, 
the applicants are liable to be posted in any of the Centres or Units of ISRO or Department of Space 
situated anywhere in India as and when required. 
11. For details of ISRO Centres/Units, please visit http://www.isro.gov.in/isro_centres.html . 
12. Applicants called for and attending the Skill Test will be reimbursed to and fro second-class 
train fare by the shortest route from the city indicated in the online application to the place of 
Skill Test (change of address and city for this purpose will not be entertained). 
13. Selected applicants may have to join the post immediately on found fit by a medical authority.  
14. IPRC reserves the right not to fill-up any of the posts, if it so decides. 
15. Those intending to apply for more than one post should submit separate applications for each post 
and payment of application fee should be made separately. 
16. GOVERNMENT STRIVES TO HAVE A WORKFORCE WHICH REFLECTS GENDER BALANCE. 
HENCE, WOMEN APPLICANTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY. 
17. CANVASSING in ANY FORM will be a DISQUALIFICATION. 
18. In case of any ambiguity/dispute arises on account of interpretation of Hindi version of this 
notification, instructions detailed in the English version shall be final. 
19. No interim correspondence will be entertained. Telephonic conversations are strictly not 
entertained. 
20. In case of any clarification, applicants may refer to the FAQs provided in the advertisement page and 
if the doubt still persists, the query shall be addressed to career@iprc.gov.in.  
21. Queries about information already available in the Advertisement/FAQs and frivolous queries 
will not be replied to. 
22. Any Addendum/Updates/Corrigendum will only be published on IPRC website. Candidates should 
regularly visit the IPRC website www.iprc.gov.in for latest updates. 
23. Candidates have to produce all original documents in proof of details furnished in their applications 
submitted on-line, at the time of Skill Test. 
24. If any information furnished on-line is found to be false, the candidate will not be allowed for the Skill 
Test and TA will not be paid. 
25. No TA will be paid for attending the Written Test. 
26. All further communications to the candidates shall be through his/her registered email ID/IPRC 
website only. The candidates are advised to check their email (including spam/junk folders) regularly 
and visit IPRC website from time to time. IPRC will not be responsible for non-receipt of any 
intimation sent/provided as aforementioned and no representation on the matter will be entertained. 
27. The documents uploaded will be verified during Skill Test and mere admission to appear 
for written examination/skill test will not bestow eligibility for selection. 
 
14. IMPORTANT DATES TO REMEMBER 
 
Opening Date for 
Online Registration : 15.09.2026, 1000 Hrs 
 Closing Date for Online 
Registration : 05.10.2026, 1600 Hrs 
 
Cut-off date for all purposes like computation of age, acquiring essential qualification/experience, etc., 05.10.2026 
 
JOIN IPRC/ISRO AND EXCEL IN YOUR CAREER. TOGETHER WE CAN ENDEAVOR IN HEIGHTENING THE 
INDIAN SPACE PROGRAMME AND TOWARDS NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT. 
****** 